= Mconf =

Mconf is a project that aims to create a complete and easy to use webconference system, with focus on the interaction with mobile devices and social networks.

This wiki contains the technical documentation of Mconf. To learn more about the project, we recommend that you first read the content in our page: http://mconf.org

The source code for all projects that compose Mconf can be found at https://github.com/mconf/

Bugs and tasks are managed in [http://dev.mconf.org/redmine our redmine server].

  * For *feedbacks, suggestions and troubleshooting* (or anything else you need), [MconfFAQ see our FAQ] or contact us at our mailing list: `mconf-dev@googlegroups.com`
  * Found a *bug* or want to suggest a new feature? Got to [http://dev.mconf.org/redmine our redmine server] and add a new issue.
  * Want to *collaborate*? Fork [https://github.com/mconf some of our repositories at github] and send a pull request!


Mconf is built on top of the open source system [http://www.bigbluebutton.org BigBlueButton].

== Contributors ==

Mconf is being developed at the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), in Porto Alegre, Brazil. Currently everyone involved in the project is a member of the [http://www.inf.ufrgs.br/prav/ PRAV] research group. The project is funded by [http://www.rnp.br/ RNP].

Check our team to see who's currently working on the project: http://mconf.org/m/about/team (or you can also see it in [https://github.com/mconf our github page] or [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/people/list here at gcode]).


== Mconf Webconference Network ==

Interested in the global webconference network? See this page for more information about it: http://mconf.org/m/about/network

== Documentation of our subprojects ==

  * [MconfMobile Mconf-Mobile]: Mconf-Mobile is an Android implementation of a webconference client.
  * [MconfWeb Mconf-Web]: Mconf-Web is the social network that provides access to webconferences..
  * [MconfLive Mconf-Live]: Here you can learn more about Mconf-Live, Mconf's webconference application.
  * [MconfScalability Scalable Infrastructure]: Documentation about the solution created to scale Mconf (includes the monitoring server and the load balancer). Is also the documentation of how the [http://mconf.org/m/about/network Mconf Network] works today.
  * [MconfNetwork Mconf Global Network]: More information about the [http://mconf.org/m/about/network Mconf Network] and how to join it.