= Translating Mconf-Web =

Currently, the best way to translate Mconf-Web is to first [MconfWebDevelopment setup a development environment].

All the language files are inside the folder <tt>config/locales</tt> and they use the [http://guides.rubyonrails.org/i18n.html YAML format]. All the files in this folder are automatically loaded when the application starts.

The languages maintained by the Mconf team are:
  * English
  * Portuguese (Brazil)

See below how to *update an existent language*, *add a new language file* and how to *integrate your changes in Mconf-Web*. In the following examples, replace <tt>%locale%</tt> with the name of the locale you are trying to update ("de" for german, "fr" for french, and so on).

=== Updating an existing language file ===

From your development environment, run:

{{{
BASE=en LOCALE=%locale% rake translate:add_untranslated TRANSLATE=1
}}}

This command will get everything that exists in "en" and does not exists in "%locale%" and add to it. Before doing that, it will translate the strings to the target language (using Google Translate). You can omit the <tt>TRANSLATE=1</tt> parameter to disable automatic translation. 

Then you can just open the file and edit those new strings. You can also use any "diff application", such as [http://meld.sourceforge.net/ Meld]:

{{{
meld config/locales/%locale%.yml
}}}

After finishing all your changes, run the following command to assure that the file is in a valid format:

{{{
LOCALE=%locale% rake translate:cleanup
}}}

=== Adding a new language file ===

First create your new language file in the folder <tt>config/locales</tt>. Name it <tt>%locale%.yml</tt> and add to it these two lines:

{{{
--- 
%locale%:
  abc: ABC
}}}

Let's say you want to add the Swedish language file. Create a file <tt>config/locales/sv.yml</tt> with the content:

{{{
---
sv:
  abc: ABC
}}}

Please, use names as defined in http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes (preferably the 2 letters code). You can use a country code together with the language code if needed (as we did in "pt-br").

After adding it, use the same commands from *Updating an existing language file*.

The flags displayed inside the pop-down menu in the application are in the folder <tt>public/images/flags/</tt>. 

=== Integrating your changes in Mconf-Web ===

You can either:
  * Fork [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web our project in GitHub] and send us a pull request; or
  * Send the language file to our mailing list: [mconf-dev@googlegroups.com mconf-dev@googlegroups.com]