#summary Development Road Map for Mconf-Web

=== Shortcuts ===
  * [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=2&q=component:Mconf-Web%20OR%20component:BigBlueButtonRails%20OR%20component:BigBlueButtonAPIRuby&sort=component+milestone&colspec=ID%20Type%20Milestone%20Status%20Priority%20Reporter%20Owner%20Component%20Summary All open issues]


= Releases =

== Current Development: Release 0.7 ==

*Planned for*: ?

  * Added SMTP configurations in the management area so that any SMTP account can be used (not only a Gmail account as before).
  * Improved some pages to join web conferences from mobile clients.
  * Users can now specify their ID during registration.
  * When logging in via shibboleth, users can now associate their shibboleth account with an account that already exists in Mconf-Web.
  * Users cannot modify their email address after registering.
  * Added a configuration file to use logrotate (see [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/commit/89af50503c22a8f353d856b2e03d60241ced710b this commit]).
  * Added support for guest users in web conferences. Guest users is a feature currently only available in Mconf-Live. 
  * Several small layout and bug fixes.

See also:

  * [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/compare/v0.6...v0.7 Source code changes].


https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/compare/v0.6...master


== Release 0.6 ==

*Released*: Feb 7th, 2012.

  * New directory structure for the language files. There's now a folder with the language name and several files for each language. Example: `config/locales/en/mconf.yml`.
  * Mconf-Web is now using myGengo for translations. You can see the project page [http://mygengo.com/string/p/mconf-web-1 here].
  * New rake tasks "mconf:analytics:init" and "mconf:analytics:update" that fetch information from Google Analytics to show the number of pageviews for the spaces in Mconf-Web.
  * The gem "Whenever" is being used to setup the crontab. See more in the update notes.
  * Updated "bigbluebutton_rails" to a version with support to !BigBlueButton 0.8.
  * Emails are now sent in the receiver's language (Issue 275).
  * Added digest emails (with recent activity in the spaces) to be sent daily or weekly if requested by the user (Issue 287).

Update notes:

  * Mconf-Web now uses "`whenever`" to generate/update the crontab.
    * The guides were updated to include the command to generate your crontab. See more in [MconfWebDeploymentGuideWhenever this page].
    * Using `whenever` with RVM requires your to add the following line to your `~/.rvmrc` (if the file doesn't exist, create it):
      * `rvm_trust_rvmrcs_flag=1`
    * For more information check `whenever`'s [https://github.com/javan/whenever/blob/master/README.md readme file].    
  * The `delayed_job` configuration file for `God` was updated. New file [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/blob/v0.6/config/god/delayed_job.god here]. In a deployment server this file is at `/etc/god/conf.d/delayed_job.god`
  * God updated to version 0.12.1 and Passenger to version 3.0.11. To update see [MconfWebDeploymentInstallPassenger] and [MconfWebDeploymentInstallGod].

See also:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone%3DMconf-Web-Release0.6 Issues for Mconf-Web-Release0.6].
  * [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/compare/v0.5...v0.6 Source code changes].

== Release 0.5 ==

*Released*: Nov 1st, 2011.

  * `setup_conf.yml` is now optional and only used to create the seed data in the database.
  * First version of the federated login using Shibboleth (Issue 198).
  * Several parameters that were only configurable via `setup_conf.yml` or command line are now available in the website interface (in the "manage" area).
  * Users can request a resend of the confirmation email if needed (to confirm their registration).
  * Mconf-Web can be used with SSL (Issue 262).
  * Better email and success notices when a webconference invitation is sent.

See also:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone%3DMconf-Web-Release0.5 Issues for Mconf-Web-Release0.5].
  * [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/compare/v0.4.1...v0.5 Source code changes].



== Release 0.4 ==

*Released*: Oct 7th, 2011.

  * User rooms can be set as private (Issue 241).
  * Layout changes in the homepage: focusing the spaces, now in the center.
  * Layout fixes for Internet Explorer.
  * Admin users can set other users as admins (Issue 165).
  * `mconf-web-conf` version 0.3 with several changes: RVM is installed as multi-user and capistrano is not required anymore. <font color=red>(1) </font>
  * Using [http://god.rubyforge.org/ god] to monitor processes (only delayed_job currently). <font color=red>(2) </font>
  * Several other bug fixes.

Update notes:

  * Due to the changes in <font color=red>(1) </font> and <font color=red>(2) </font>, you'll need to do some additional configuration in your server to migrate to this version. You can see all the necessary steps in [MconfWebDeploymentManual this wiki page] (search for RVM and god). If you have additional questions contact us in our mailing list.

*Release 0.4.1* (Oct 18th, 2011):

  * Small adjustments in the installation scripts.

See also:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone%3DMconf-Web-Release0.4 Issues for Mconf-Web-Release0.4].
  * [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/compare/v0.3...v0.4.1 Source code changes].



== Release 0.3 ==

*Released*: Sept 5th, 2011.

  * Fixes in the upload of documents, specially in the documents tab inside spaces.
  * New FAQ and Help pages.
  * Users now have only one permanent webconference room.
  * Integration with Mconf-Mobile.
  * Improved permission check for !BigBlueButton rooms and servers (Issue 107).
  * Added a feedback page that is shown when the user logs out of a webconference (Issue 188).
  * Improvements in the script mconf-web-conf, specially to use Mconf-Web with Apache (Issue 190).
  * Several other bug fixes and cleanup in the website.

See also:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone%3DMconf-Web-Release0.3 Issues for Mconf-Web-Release0.3].
  * [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/compare/v0.2...v0.3 Source code changes].

== Release 0.2 ==

*Released*: Jul 25th, 2011.

  * Cleanup events (inside spaces). They will be a simple way to schedule conferences.
  * Provide a VM with the development and production environments.
  * Provide scripts to easily install Mconf-Web (development and production)
  * Join conference URLs using the style: http://server/webconf/my-room
  * Activity monitor to see what's happening in a !BigBlueButton server.
  * Other bug fixes, cleanup of broken features and usability issues.

See also:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone%3DMconf-Web-Release0.2 Issues for Mconf-Web-Release0.2].
  * [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/compare/v0.1...v0.2 Source code changes].

== Release 0.1 ==

*Released*: Jun 1st, 2011.

  * Migration of VCC to Rails 3 (Issue 9)
  * Branding of VCC to become Mconf-Web (Issue 11)
  * First integration of BBB in Mconf-Web using bigbluebutton_rails.
    * Every space has a webconference room (Issue 25)
    * Users can create webconferences from their home page (Issue 26)
  * First version in production and documentation on [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/wiki/MconfWebDeployment how to setup a production server]
  * Several other bugs and features implemented.

See also:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone%3DMconf-Web-Release0.1 Issues for Mconf-Web-Release0.1].
  * [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/compare/ging:master...mconf:v0.1 Source code changes].