= Mconf-Mobile =

|| [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-mobile Source code] || [MconfMobile#Running_the_app How to start] || [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/downloads/list Download] ||

Mconf-Mobile is an Android implementation of the [http://www.bigbluebutton.org BigBlueButton] client. If you would like more information about the project, please visit http://www.inf.ufrgs.br/prav/gtmconf (Portuguese and English).

*Video demo 1:* http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v4Du20LsWGs

*Download*: Check our [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/downloads/list downloads section].

= About the subprojects =
== Flazr - a Java implementation of multimedia streaming protocols ==

[http://flazr.com/ Flazr] is a very good implementation of the RTMP protocol with minimal dependencies. It was developed by Peter Thomas and it's licensed under LGPL.

We've had to "clone" the subversion repository of Flazr because we needed to adapt the library to support Remote Shared Objects. We've used part of the [http://red5.org/ Red5] source code - Red5 is an Open Source Flash Server written in Java. Red5 is also licensed under LGPL.

== BBB-Java ==

This is our Java implementation that uses Flazr to communicate with !BigBlueButton Server. It is a client-side API and could be used as an interface between any Java application and BBB. The code is licensed under GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL).

== BBB-Android ==

BBB-Android is an Android implementation of the !BigBlueButton client. The code is licensed under GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL).

*Update:* since March 2011 we changed the license of BBB-Android to GNU General Public Licence (GPL) because we started to use [http://sipdroid.org/ Sipdroid] for audio interaction. Sipdroid is a free SIP/VoIP client for Android and it's licensed under GNU General Public License (GPL).

== Mconf-Mobile ==

Mconf-Mobile is an mobile client for Mconf. It interacts with the web portal (https://mconf.org), and the user can join any conference room he could access from a web browser. The code is licensed under GNU General Public License (LGPL).

= Running BBB-Android =

If you want to test the application, the [http://demo.bigbluebutton.org BigBlueButton demo server] provides mobile access, and it's pre-configured in BBB-Android. You can also run BBB-Android with your own server. 

== On !BigBlueButton 0.71a ==

To run the application with your !BigBlueButton 0.71a server, it must provide access to the demo *`mobile.jsp`*. You can download and deploy the file with the following command:

   {{{
sudo curl https://raw.github.com/mconf/mconf-mobile/master/mobile.jsp -o /var/lib/tomcat6/webapps/bigbluebutton/demo/mobile.js
   }}}

The mobile.jsp demo wrap the default API to remove the need of the security salt. On !BigBlueButton 0.8 there's a special security key for mobile access.
When BBB-Android asks for the server password, just leave it blank.

== On !BigBlueButton 0.8 (still on beta) ==

The !BigBlueButton 0.8 and above supports mobile access natively. To configure/change the mobile security key, you will need to edit the following configuration file:

`/var/lib/tomcat6/webapps/demo/mobile_conf.jsp`

== Custom URLs ==

In your integrated environment, if you provide the !BigBlueButton join calls replacing the prefix *`http://`* with *`bigbluebutton://`*, the BBB-Android application will start automatically, and will handle the session in your mobile device. The [https://mconf.org mconf.org] uses this feature - to understand how it works, I would like to invite you to join Mconf and try it yourself. :)

= Building the app from the repository =

 # Install Android SDK ([http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html link])
 # Install Android NDK ([http://developer.android.com/sdk/ndk/index.html link])
 # Install Apache Ant ([http://ant.apache.org/ link])
 # Install Findbugs ([http://findbugs.sourceforge.net/ link])
 # Copy *`findbugs/libs/findbugs_ant.jar`* to *`~/.ant/lib`*
 # Clone the repository
 # Copy *`./local.properties.template`* to *`./local.properties`* and edit this file to reproduce your environment
<wiki:comment>
 # Run *`sudo aptitude install libc6-dev-i386 libc6-dev g++ gcc lib32z1-dev g++-multilib`* to install all the dependencies
</wiki:comment>
 # Run *`ant build-all`*

If you run into any trouble, see http://developer.android.com/sdk/installing.html#troubleshooting.

If you want to work with Eclipse:

 # Install Eclipse ([http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ link])
 # Configure the environment (Eclipse + Android SDK integration) ([http://developer.android.com/sdk/eclipse-adt.html link])
 # Import all the projects in your workspace on Eclipse
 # Just wait while Eclipse build the code
 # Run *`bbb-android`* or *`mconf-mobile`* as an Android application

A full documentation for Android developers is available [http://developer.android.com/index.html here].

= How could I contribute? =

If you are not a developer, the best you can do is to test the Android application and provide us any feedback. It could be done by [http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list creating a new issue] reporting a bug or specifying an enhancement. Also you can send messages to the [http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev BigBlueButton developers mailing list]. If you are interested in translating the Android application to another language different of Portuguese (PT-BR) and English, send us a message and we will provide a way to do that (of course, better translations of the supported languages are welcome). :)

If you are a developer and want to be part of this project, you can pick an issue and try to solve it. Of course we are totally open to help you in what you need.

= Changelog =

v0.4.3 (November 17th 2011)
 * Improvements on stability of the video capture module
 * Removed the hardware requirements to run the app (more devices are supported now)

[http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=1&q=label%3AMilestone-bbb-android-0.4.2 v0.4.2] (October 31th 2011)
 * Improvements on stability
 * First version released on Android Market

[http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=1&q=Milestone%3Dbbb-android-0.4.1 v0.4.1] (September 5th 2011 - bugfix release)
 * Anonymous data is sent to the dev team when the app crashes

[http://code.google.com/p/mconf/issues/list?can=1&q=milestone%3Dbbb-android-0.4 v0.4] (August 25th 2011)
 * Moderator is able to lower hand of a participant
 * Dialog with some informations about the meeting
 * Improvement on the app notifications
 * Integration with Mconf-Web
 * Video capture and publish

v0.3beta (May 28th 2011)
 * Video integration - view one video at a time on a dialog or full screen when the phone is on landscape
 * Mute / unmute room
 * Join a conference by a QR code (url bigbluebutton://)

v0.2 (May 6th 2011)
 * Visualization of the participants and listeners lists
 * Raise / lower hand
 * Private and public chat
 * Integration with a SIP client (Sipdroid) - full interactivity by audio
 * Tap to speak
 * Audio settings
 * Mute / unmute users

= Roadmap =
 * Multiple videos in one screen
 * Better interfaces integrated to the video feature (Adobe Connect's app like)
 * Shared notes module
 * Presentation module
 * Voice interface for chat
 * Auto translation on chat
 * Desktop share visualization
 * Full desktop share integration


= [https://picasaweb.google.com/108245856281359125408/BigBlueButtonForAndroidV03beta?feat=directlink Pics] =