_This page is a continuation of [MconfWebDeployment this page]._

Note: From version 0.3, the script has changed quite a bit. The documentation for the old version [MconfWebDeploymentManual0.2 can be found here].

= Mconf-Web Manual Deployment (step-by-step guide) =

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

== Overview ==

This is a step-by-step guide showing every detail needed to install Mconf-Web. If you have experience deploying a Rails application this guide should look very familiar to you. Otherwise, if you don't have experience with that or if you're searching for an easier way to install the application, [MconfWebDeploymentWithScript check this page]. 

We tried to keep this page in the same format as the page that describes how to install Mconf-Web using the script `mconf-web-conf` ([http://code.google.com/p/mconf/wiki/MconfWebDeploymentWithScript here], so that you can easily relate both guides and solve any doubts you may have.


== Installing Mconf-Web ==


=== 1. System Packages ===

You need to install some system packages before you can run Mconf-web in production. The packages are listed in a file that you can find at [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/blob/master/config/packages.ubuntu config/packages.ubuntu]. You can download this file and install the packages with:

{{{
curl https://raw.github.com/mconf/mconf-web/master/config/packages.ubuntu -o packages.ubuntu
source packages.ubuntu
sudo apt-get install ${PACKAGES_PRODUCTION[@]}
rm packages.ubuntu
}}}

You will be prompted to type a password for MySQL in case you don't have it installed yet.




=== 2. Ruby ===

<font color=red>*TODO:* Update to install RVM as multi-user</font>

Mconf-web uses Ruby *1.9.2*. To install Ruby, we suggest the use of RVM. There are scripts in Mconf-web that assume you have RVM installed, so you should use it unless you can't do it for some reason.

You can install RVM following our [RVMQuickSteps quick steps] or following [https://rvm.beginrescueend.com/rvm/install/ RVM's install page]. 

If you decided to use RVM, don't forget to actually install Ruby (and not only RVM) and create a gemset for Mconf-web:

{{{
rvm install 1.9.2-p290
rvm gemset create mconf
rvm use --default 1.9.2-p290@mconf
}}}




=== 3. Download the application ===

<font color=blue>Note about Capistrano: </font>This is not necessary if you want to use Capistrano, it will checkout the code for you in your production server. So you can skip this step if you'll use Capistrano. See [MconfWebDeploymentWithCapistrano this page] to know how to deploy with Capistrano. 

Install git if you don't have it and clone Mconf-Web:

{{{
sudo apt-get install git-core
mkdir -p ~/mconf-web/current/
git clone git://github.com/mconf/mconf-web.git ~/mconf-web/current/
}}}

Your application will be deployed at `~/mconf-web/current/`, but you can change it if you need to. It is the default path, so it should require less configurations if you don't change it.

Next, change your repository to the version you want to deploy. If you don't do this, you'll be deploying the master branch, and it is not recommended.

{{{
cd ~/mconf-web/
git checkout v0.4  # go to version 0.4
}}}

The versions available are the tags available. To see all versions, go to [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web our repository] and see the "Switch tags" button or check the [https://github.com/mconf/mconf-web/archives/master download page]. 

With the repository you can now install the dependencies. All dependencies are either gems (and are listed in the Gemfile) or submodules. However, to install the gems first we need to manually install bundler, that will be used to install all the other dependencies. See the commands below:

{{{
git submodule init
git submodule update
gem install bundler -v 1.0.18
bundle install
}}}




=== 4. Edit the configuration files (manual configuration) ===

<font color=blue>Note about Capistrano: </font>If you'll use Capistrano, you should never edit the configuration files in you server. Edit them in your development machine and they will be uploaded to the server. See [MconfWebDeploymentWithCapistrano this page].


There are two files that need to be configured. At first, copy the example files:

{{{
cp ~/mconf-web/config/setup_conf.yml.example ~/mconf-web/config/setup_conf.yml
cp ~/mconf-web/config/database.yml.example ~/mconf-web/config/database.yml
}}}

Then edit the files `setup_conf.yml` and `database.yml`. *To configure these files, see [MconfWebSetupConf this page]*.

`setup_conf.yml` has general configurations for the web application and `database.yml` configures the database. By default, MySQL will be used. If you haven't set up a password for MySQL yet, you can do it with:

{{{
mysqladmin -u root password "NEW-PASSWORD" # Use the quotes, they are not part of the password
}}}

Or, in case you want to change the password:

{{{
mysqladmin -u root -p password "NEW-PASSWORD"
}}}





=== 5. Install a web server, configure the application and deploy ===

==== 5.1. Web server ====

You can use both Apache or Nginx to serve Mconf-Web. We recommend the use of Apache if you're installing Mconf-Web in the same machine that has !BigBlueButton. If Mconf-Web will be installed in a standalone machine, you can pick your favorite server.

The guides to install the web server are in separate wiki pages:

  * [MconfWebDeploymentInstallApache Guide to install Apache]
  * [MconfWebDeploymentInstallNginx Guide to install Nginx]


==== 5.2. System-wide configurations ====

This contains the extra configurations you need to do on your server to run Mconf-Web. Currently, it consists only in installing and configuring God.

*God* is a process monitoring framework that Mconf-Web uses to monitor other processes. It is installed as a system-wide application and configured as such. God should be always running, just like your web server will always be running.

God is already installed with the other gems when you run `bundle install`, and you should already have done it by now.

If you're using RVM you need to create a wrapper for God, so that it runs with the correct environment setup:

{{{
rvm wrapper 1.9.2-p290@mconf bootup god
}}}

Next, we'll create a configuration file for god at `/etc/god/config`. This file will simply load any other configuration file in the folder `/etc/god/conf.d/`, that will also be created.

{{{
sudo mkdir -p /etc/god/conf.d/
sudo curl https://raw.github.com/mconf/mconf-web/master/config/god/config -o /etc/god/config
}}}

God is currently used to monitor the process `delayed_job` (used to deliver emails, mostly). So you need to install God's configuration file for delayed_job:

{{{
sudo curl https://raw.github.com/mconf/mconf-web/master/config/god/delayed_job.god -o /etc/god/conf.d/delayed_job.god
}}}

This file has a line that points to Mconf-Web's path, so it should be edited to match the path where you will place Mconf-Web. You can use the following command to edit it (replace `%PATH%` with the actual path):

{{{
sudo sed -i "s:^RAILS_ROOT =.*:RAILS_ROOT = \"%PATH%\":g" /etc/god/conf.d/delayed_job.god
}}}

To start and stop God, we'll install an init script in `/etc/init.d/`:

{{{
sudo curl https://raw.github.com/mconf/mconf-web/simplify_install_script/config/god/init_script -o /etc/init.d/god
sudo chmod a+x /etc/init.d/god
sudo update-rc.d god defaults
}}}

This script is already configured to load the configuration file `/etc/god/config` and save the log at `/var/log/god.log`. You can change the log directory to your application folder with (replace `%PATH%` with the actual path):

{{{
sudo sed -i "s:^GOD_LOG=.*:GOD_LOG=%PATH%:g" /etc/init.d/god
}}}

Then you can start/stop god with:

{{{
sudo /etc/init.d/god {start|stop|restart|status}
}}}


==== 5.3. Application configurations ====

<font color=blue>Note about Capistrano: </font>If you'll use Capistrano this is not needed. See [MconfWebDeploymentWithCapistrano this page].


This step consists of everything that was not possible to be done at 3. because we needed the configuration files properly edited.

We'll setup the database and generate a new [http://www.railsrocket.com/rake-secret secret key] for rails:

{{{
bundle exec rake setup:db RAILS_ENV=production
bundle exec rake secret RAILS_ENV=production
}}}

After that, you should restart your application. See the maintenance tasks below.


== Maintenance tasks ==


=== Restart ===

To restart the application you need to restart the web server and god:

{{{
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart  # if you're using apache
sudo /etc/init.d/god restart
}}}

You don't always need to restart god, only if you changed anything in it's configuration files. The web server you'll need to restart every time you change anything in the application (source code) or configuration files.

=== Update ===

........

restart server