#summary Testing Mconf-Web

= Mconf-Web Testing =

Mconf-Web uses the [http://relishapp.com/rspec rspec framework] for automated tests.

== Running the tests ==

To run the tests, first you need to set up your [MconfWebDevelopment development environment]. Then you can run the tests with:

{{{
bundle exec rake
}}}

This command will erase your entire test database, populate it with the seed data (see `db/seeds.rb`) and run *all* tests. It might take some time, but it runs the complete suite of tests to assure that everything is working properly.

Alternatively, you can set up the test database and run single tests to speed up the development.

Run the following command to set up a test database and populate it with the seed data:
{{{
RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rake setup:db
}}}

Then run the tests using the `rspec` command. The first argument you need to pass to this command is the folder that contains the test files or the files you want to run. You can also specify a single line in a file to run a single test or a block of tests inside a scope. 

{{{
bundle exec rspec spec/                            # run all spec inside the folder spec/
bundle exec rspec spec/controllers/                # run all spec inside the folder spec/controllers/
bundle exec rspec spec/models/space_spec.rb        # run all specs in space_spec.rb
bundle exec rspec spec/models/space_spec.rb -l 40  # run the spec in the line 40 of space_spec.rb
}}}

Run `rspec --help` for more details.

It is important to run `rspec` with `bundle exec` so that the tests will run using the correct gem environment .

=== Troubleshooting ===

==== undefined method `stage_type' ====

If you run into an error like:

{{{
undefined method `stage_type' for nil:NilClass
}}}

In which almost all specs will fail, it means that your database doesn't have the seed data in it. You can either add this data to your database with:

{{{
RAILS_ENV=test rake setup:db
}}}

Or use the safer and more complete method that will set up the database and run all tests:

{{{
bundle exec rake
}}}